giving your messages so 180 of the
current Paradigm when it comes to cancer
what kind of pushback do you get or
given your credentials and how long
you've been in this world are you pretty
immune to that
um no I don't think anybody can be
immune to it the the the the frustration
is when you see papers that are
published
um that say that cancer uses oxidative
phosphorylation based on oxygen
consumption studies
um a lot of times that they they don't
cite what you've already done uh and you
know that gets you everybody you do a
lot of work and then some guy comes out
and says oh I did it no we we published
that before you did but but
um no I know it's a hard thing but you
know
um it's exciting uh you know it's like
it's like a big basketball football game
the excitement is in the game yes if the
outcome comes out the way you'd like it
to be then you can Revel in the success
but it's actually playing the game it's
actually the process of moving a field
in a different direction yes it's not
easy is it frustrating absolutely but
um I'm waiting for someone to present
hard evidence to me showing that some
kind of a cancer cell can Thrive and
live well in gluco without glucose and
glutamine okay then I would be uh shaken
uh or I would have to spend a lot of
time trying to figure out uh what went
on with this why why did we not
understand this and so far we have not
found that after after excruciating
studies in depth we we can't find that
so that says that perhaps we might be
correct and if we are correct then the
Paradigm must change at some point it
has to change otherwise people are going
to continue to suffer and die in very
excruciating ways almost medieval like
uh which is tragic I I find that to be
absolutely tragic and um and if you know
you can possibly make that less
stressful less painful more
therapeutically effective then yeah then
I'm going to do whatever I can to see
through
I mean what am I going to do go back and
plant tomatoes in my garden you know I
mean uh maybe maybe so but but I prefer
to to challenge this whole system prove
me wrong come on tell me why you think
I'm wrong go ahead and show me show me
the data well it's obvious anybody
tuning in listening or watching this the
passion you have for this subject and
and your intensity wanting to continue
to do the work you do but as somebody
who is in their late 70s how much longer
do you think you can do this work oh as
long as I can breathe
um as long as I can get my ass into the
lab and direct the experiments I'll do
it right I mean if I have to wheelchair
my ass in here I'll do it uh yeah I'm
not going anywhere so um I'll do it as
long as I can let's put it that way and
uh uh the nice thing about the
university here is that if the students
enjoy the classes that you teach and you
bring the students up to a new level and
the current papers are are allowing them
to read and hear about the most recent
research and they get excited about it
so then that's the benefit because
that's my job my job is a college
professor and I bring to the students
the latest research on these topics and
I have them read the original papers and
use their own knowledge base to compare
and contrast what the paper is saying
and what the some of the research that
doesn't agree with what that paper is
showing so that they can see that there
is a considerable amount of controversy
because a lot of kids all they do is
memorize stuff out of a textbook and
they think what's in that textbook is
what they memorize and they have to do
Tessa and I tell them a lot of that
stuff in these textbooks they're way
behind the time they're not up to date
they're still telling you stuff that
we've already disproved and yet you're
memorizing stuff from a textbook that's
no longer correct so it opens the mind
of the kids and say Hey listen
everything in the textbook may not be
correct so
um so as long as I can continue to do
that and I do it and as most of the
students really enjoy it and then I
publish we've got a tremendous research
staff the best the best I've got the
best people working with me smart
conscientious hard-working and they're
they're learning and some of them are
MDS and some of these guys want to go
out and they want to start these clinics
and they want to treat these patients
because they're going to know how to do
it and they they they're excited about
this because they know it's right and I
tell them do an experiment to see if
we're wrong and they work really hard
and they can't disprove it so they know
that damn this has got to be we gotta
work harder on this so that's where it
is and it's exciting Jesse
um you know and I'm very thankful for
the philanthropy people there are some
people who feel that they want to make a
stake in something big and they don't
really care whether they're going to
make money on it but they just want to
know they're part of a process that's
starting to change the system and when
we publish papers
we acknowledge in the acknowledgment
section of these papers all the folks
that have supported our research and
they like that so if if someone gives me
a hundred thousand dollars to do some
research and I publish a paper where
that money was helping us collect new
data I put the name of that person or
that Foundation as a supporter of our
work so they can hold it up to their
friends and colleagues and say I am
helping this process look at me I
supported some of this research and they
get excited about that because they're
not able to to my lab and do these kinds
of experiments themselves but they
understand that the outcome of these
experiments could be profound in the way
we the way we change and help people
live longer and healthier and some folks
want to be part of that and I'm happy to
have them part of that because I'll my
my list of acknowledgments for success
is growing
is growing and I'm waiting for the day
that I can have a list of supporters as
long as the abstract in the paper
I just keep our fingers crossed on that
one but it's going to happen I'm not
going anywhere so
um and we're going to do everything we
can to help these folks and and and and
just keep plugging away at it and your
podcast maybe will help her and uh
spread the word and and uh things will
things will change things will change
well I know we gotta go but we'll end on
this we're gonna end on a hypothetical
situation years from now after you
continue to do the work you're doing
with new breakthroughs and
you're retired at this point you're
playing well no no hey hey okay
hypothetical here I was gonna say you're
planting your tomato plants you're
looking back at the work you did all
these years
what to you
when you get to that point
looking at all your work and what of
what has come of it what is success to
you
well I I would say success is the
knowledge that we were able to keep
people healthier and alive for longer
than they would have been uh every
person that's living longer
I feel good about
okay uh if I know someone had a stage
four tumor or or turmoil I hate the term
they have terminal cancer and these guys
are living like like years longer than
they were supposed to be that's success
success is seeing somebody alive that
should have been dead according to the
the system so I consider every one of
those cases is success and that's what
that's what motivates me to be honest
with you when I see a little kid that uh
had a terrible brain tumor and he's now
going to college at some point in his
future that's success you know
um uh you know a woman who who has three
kids single mom and she gets a terminal
cancer and and she's like all freaked
out and now now she's living 10 years
later
and she shouldn't have been that because
she did metabolic therapy that's success
so what uh I mean the university I I
have I do well here at the University
but I think success is seeing folks uh
enjoy their life have an opportunity to
live a little bit longer uh without
without crippling uh adverse effects uh
living quality of life overall survival
that's success right to say oh I can
cure I didn't say ever we can cure
cancer all I know is can we manage it
better than what we presently doing and
the answer is I think we can for sure
and that's success so when that becomes
standard then what what the hell more do
you want I mean let's give forget about
the tomatoes in the garden if I'm there
then you know we have a problem I'm not
going anywhere
if you enjoyed that clip press here for
the full episode I'll see you over there
and I have the science to say what you
should do but it's up to you to do to
determine whether or not you want to do
that the body will turn on the tumor and
dissolve it and eat it together with the
diet drug combination